the ECB will continue its policy of QE
of easy money for the foreseeable future
no they're not reducing as they said
they would no they're not stopping as
they said would need to happen they're
just continuing the exact same thing
they have been doing status quo business
as usual so don't expect anything
positive to come out of this you came
here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you today
we're going to look at what the ECB has
done I'm going to show you the Bank of
Japan I'm going to show you the US and
so much more let's begin at today's
meeting of the Governing Council of the
ECB they decided that interest rates on
the main refinancing operations and so
on Royall remain unchanged that's right
they said they would have to scale it
back they said that this would be the
time when they would be reducing and
reducing slowly but surely but that
isn't the case and while the markets
have been riding on the fact that
central banks are knowing what they're
doing or capable and have been acting
accordingly we know the truth and that
hasn't been happening yet they're still
faith somehow in these institutions
regarding non-standard monetary policy
measures the Governing Council confirms
the net asset purchases of the current
monthly pace of 60 billion euro are
intended to run until the end of
December 2017 or beyond if necessary and
in any case until they see a sustained
adjustment of the path of inflation and
it goes on so that means they are going
to print nearly a quarter of a trillion
dollars more than they already have at
the absolute minimum I assume it's going
to have to go on for a lot longer than
that so that's what they're saying
have faith in us don't worry we're going
to print more money we're going to buy
up all the garbage toxic that
just have faith in us don't worry and
how many times do we have to repeat the
same information over and over again
before people realize this isn't a joke
anymore it's not funny it's serious
because the banking institutions all
these financial institutions are taking
from people every single day and they
don't realize that because they still
have a hundred dollar bill in their hand
and they say look I've had this hundred
dollar bill here for twenty years
and it's totally fine I still have it
here they don't realize what happens
with the value of currency when you do
something like this most people in fact
I would say even a large percent of the
percentage of the people that are
supposedly knowledgeable it just doesn't
work like that you and I we know the
truth but most people unfortunately they
don't so that's what's going on with the
ECB and perhaps I'm going to do another
video about the ECB about something else
but I'll leave that right there the ECB
and the Bank of Japan balance sheets
look at this here so the D represents
when they said that they would do
anything to defend the euro and then we
get into negative interest rates QE and
Beyond and just look where it was before
the financial crisis I mean the spike
that we saw has been expanding and then
as soon as we got into QE we've seen
such a large expansion of you know I I
don't want to call them assets and I
struggle with this sometimes because I
want to say the word garbage a lot of
people if they're new to the program may
not know what I'm referring to but we're
looking at the worst of the worst that
doesn't get any worse and yet the
central bank's print the money out of
thin air to buy it all up Japan's
reserve balances I mean come on
this is not even realistic if you were
to zoom in on let's say up until this
point here so in this range here you
would see fluctuations but because of
the because this has gone so you know
this roller-coaster ride it looks like
here it just flatlines the whole thing
right across and people think there are
no consequences to this
I've spoken with people in the financial
industry who have told me that and these
are you know VP look at the VP level
okay so this individual told me that
Japan is the model of success of
quantitative easing okay and that's not
the only person obviously you hear that
regularly so there's some information
here that I thought would be interesting
I wanted to bring it to you as a result
of today's peculiar revision which was
not explained by the Fed total consumer
credit declined by roughly 100 billion
dollars from three point eight five six
trillion as of June 2017 obviously it's
not a big jump in when you look at it
compared to the total but one hundred
billion dollars is significant so what
happened well they did some revising
they get into the reasons why here and
you know maybe I'll just touch on it
quickly those revolving credit
surpassing the financial crisis peak of
a trillion dollars as of July are now
wrong and the previous record remains
safe at least for the next few months
because as of today revolving credit has
been revised down to just under one
trillion dollars meaning that the US
household credit card debt has just been
mysteriously Vie revised by 27 billion
dollars less
so what do you do when you have too much
debt well you just wipe it off the books
what happened with people's credit
scores recently where they just wiped
off a whole bunch of things that were
giving people bad credit poof it's gone
no more problem right that's the way
this all works you're seeing data but we
need to see beyond the data right when
these revisions come out we need to be
aware of that we need to know what's
happening when we see inflation numbers
and unemployment numbers and every other
fake number we need to know what it all
means for real right let's look for the
next one here quickly
Obamacare okay everyone loves Obamacare
everyone loves free stuff cellphones are
free and everything else he's gonna pay
my mortgage he's gonna pay all my bills
and when they brought this in it was
regarded to be the greatest thing ever
unfortunately they are now seeing the
truth and that is health care premiums
rising an average of a hundred and
thirteen percent it depends on where you
live obviously but you'll see that they
have been rising an average hmm you know
many people have been reporting much
higher numbers than this but let's go
with the average year 2013 2017 you
don't get anything for free that's a
whole bunch of garbage that we've been
told and you have to remember that
whenever they will bring something out
that has to be paid for I mean that that
seems so logical yet most people don't
understand it they will say all right I
want a bridge to be built okay I want a
bridge from this one place to another
and I want that to be built by the
government and they should do it for me
I want to get to work faster let's say
okay so then the government finally
get enough support behind it after 10
years they finally build that bridge
who's paying for the bridge obviously
it's you you're paying for that but
people think that it's miraculously just
happening the more that we have these
this governments do things for us the
more of a burden we have the less we get
them to do then the less of a burden
they are that's what people are always
demanding more and more and more from
the government
well that just expands them larger and
larger don't they realize that it's it
seems so logical to me anyway this is a
three for one right here but essentially
what I wanted to touch on was consumer
debt payments now growing faster than
take-home pay and it might be hard for
you to see on the screen right here but
growth in debt payments began outpacing
the discretionary income growth and that
was back in 2016 all I wanted to know
was that people's the amount of debt
that people carry is exceeding their
wealth so they just continued to go into
more and more debt and at the same time
they're not able to get what they needed
to in terms of their wages okay their
wages are basically staying stagnant or
declining and real in real terms and
their debt is just continuing to
increase credit card that everything
else wages and salaries is as a
percentage of GDP all right so that
connects them with what I was just
talking and they make it very obvious
right here as the years go on our
dollars buy less and less and it's not
just like as if okay you're going to be
earned our children and grandchildren
and so on
we'll be earning a million dollars a
year and that's a just an average salary
that's not what I'm talking about I'm
talking about the fact that your wages
increase very very little in nominal
terms but in real terms that money
doesn't really buy you much anymore and
as the years go on that's becoming more
and more obvious talk about it all the
time
look back in 1970 this is what I quoted
on my first book back in 1970 look at
what the average person made that as
their average wage right what did that
buy them while they were able to first
of all have only one person in the
household working and were able to
afford them nice home they can have a
little piece of land everything would be
fine in that regard then we move forward
40 years later and suddenly it's a very
very different picture because people
are unable to afford what they need to
have the basic essentials are becoming
more and more of a burden on them their
rent or their mortgage that they have to
pay every month is taking up a large
percentage of their income you look at
food prices for those on the lower end
or you know that that actually takes up
a significant amount and for those who
are you know different aspects here ok
you see where I'm going let me move on
quickly last one a tale of two countries
the share of US pre-tax income accruing
to the bottom 50% and the top 1% of
income earners is going back to 62 to
2014 all right so the bottom 50% of
income earners every year less and less
but if you're in the top 1% not even the
top 0.01% but just the top 1% ok their
wealth continues to increase the rich
get richer the poor get poorer yeah
that's a very obvious very simple thing
to understand you and I know it so I'm
glad that we could just prove it here
with these charts I'll leave it at that
for today stay tuned for the next one
you know it's not too far around the
corner I know that
there's so much positivity out there for
this channel and I just want to thank
you all if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
if you haven't already you definitely
want to subscribe because subscribers to
this program get to be notified every
single video I do which I post at least
once a day on average and recently it's
been even a little bit more than that so
you definitely want to stay tuned do not
miss a video because I'm doing so many
that you know I'm covered in all
different types of topics so it's
important that you catch them all there
are now over 65,000 people on this
YouTube channel and what those of you
who haven't clicked the subscribe button
to join me and join the others last but
not least if you found this video
informative I know you'll find my books
the money GPS and my new release global
economic collapse even more informative
you can flip through these books at
Amazon they have a look inside feature
that will allow you to do that the first
book is about the four asset classes are
not a profit from them whereas my new
book gets into different topics as well
as covering familiar terms becoming
self-sufficient reducing your monthly
expenses and solar panels and the like
so check those out links are in the
description below and one more thing if
you haven't already then you want to
catch me on steam it and vid me as well
so those links are in the description
basically steam it for those who don't
know it is a blockchain based social
media platform very very clean look to
it you can get on there it's um
something that I think is has been good
so far we'll see where it happens to it
but there are about 600 people on there
so it's quite a different sized group
but I post all of the videos I post on
YouTube I post on there as well except
there is no worries about the issues
that I had gone through in in the past
so
I won't talk about it around here but
none of those issues are apparently
going to be present on that site so
steam it's pretty cool links are in the
description
take care